


------------------------------------------------

Article title: Iterative Learning for Gravity Compensation in Impedance Control
Journal acronym: TMECH
Article DOI: 10.1109/TMECH.2024.3386407
Manuscript Number: TMECH-08-2023-16189

ID: TMECH-08-2023-16189.R2
Title: Iterative Learning for Gravity Compensation in Impedance Control
Authors: Teng Li; Amir Zakerimanesh; Yafei Ou; Armin Badre; Mahdi Tavakoli
Journal: IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics

--------------------------
TMECH, 2024, PDGit. 1-12.

Teng Li, Amir Zakerimanesh, Yafei Ou, Armin Badre, and Mahdi Tavakoli, Iterative Learning for Gravity Compensation in Impedance Control, IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, 1-12, 2024.


ABSTRACT: Robot-assisted arthroscopic surgery has been increasingly receiving attention in orthopedic surgery. To build a robot-assisted system, dynamic uncertainties can be a critical issue that could bring robot performance inaccuracy or even system instability if cannot be appropriately compensated. Disturbance observer is a common tool to be used for disturbance estimation and compensation by taking all uncertainties as disturbances, but this will refuse human-robot interaction since the human-applied force will also be regarded as a disturbance by the observer. Iterative learning for gravity compensation can be another promising way to solve this problem when gravity compensation is the main concern. In this paper, a gravity iterative learning (Git) scheme in Cartesian space for gravity compensation, integrating with an impedance controller, is presented. A steady-state scaling strategy is then proposed which released the updating requirements of the learning scheme and also extended its validity to trajectory-tracking scenarios from set-point regulations. The deriving process and convergence properties of the Git scheme are presented and theoretically analyzed, respectively. A series of simulations and physical experiments are conducted to evaluate the validity of the scaling strategy, the learning accuracy of the Git scheme, and the effectiveness of the learning-based impedance controller. Both simulation and experimental results demonstrate good performance and properties of the Git scheme and the learning-based impedance controller. 


Keywords: Iterative learning, gravity compensation, impedance control, physical human-robot interaction, robot-assisted arthroscopy.


------------------------------------------------


In the demo video, we showcase three physical experiments for evaluating the proposed Git scheme, including trajectory-tracking scenario, setpoint regulation (involving pHRI) scenario, and a simulated arthroscopic sugery application scenario.

gravity iterative learning (Git) scheme


(THE END)


